# Deployed Webpage: https://satej006.github.io/
# Original Dataset: https://flunky.github.io/cars2017.csv

# Narrative Visualization Essay
The message I want to convey with my narrative visualization is the relationship between engine cylinder count and average highway miles per gallon for various car manufacturers. By using a series of scatterplots, my goal is to illustrate how increasing engine cylinder counts generally lead to decreased average highway miles per gallon, providing insights into the impact of engine size on fuel efficiency.

The structure of my narrative visualization is an interactive slide show. In order to follow this structure, I structured my website with a homepage that leads to the initial scene of the data. The user is then allowed to view more details on the data as they keep pressing the “Next” button near the top of the screen to advance the slideshow and continue the story. The user is sequentially led through the visualization step-by-step ensuring that they view the data in the order that I want them to. There is also the opportunity to drill-down and explore at each of the 3 scenes. By hovering over any data point, they can view additional information on a specific car manufacturer. Additionally, they can hover over any legend item to see all data points pertaining to that specific manufacturer that are currently visible.

The visual structure used for each scene essentially reveals more and more data points on the graph as the user clicks the “Next” button. Initially, they are constrained to only seeing data points where the engine cylinder count is equal to 0, but as they press the “Next” button, the visualized data gradually grows to show up to an engine cylinder count equal to 12. This allows the user to follow the exponential decay correlation of the data and really understand which car manufacturers tend to be at either end. The visual structure also helps show where large clusters of data may be found in the data set, such as when engine cylinder count is 4.

There are 3 scenes of the data that the user can navigate to from a homepage. The reason for the homepage was to introduce the user to what the data would be exploring then guide them through the exploration of the data as well. The first scene only focuses on engine cylinder counts equal to 0 because we see a significant spike in the average miles per gallon on the highway for these cars. These cars were also all electric, so focusing on the very first tick in our horizontal axis provides some context to the reader on why the data may be as it is. The second scene starts to show engine cylinder counts ranging from 0 to 6, depicting the immediate drop in miles per gallon as we switch from 0 cylinder electric cars to 2, 4, and 6 cylinder gasoline cars. The final scene ranges cylinder counts from 0 to 12. This final graph highlights the full range of the data and how miles per gallon really correlate with engine cylinder count in a negative trend. This scene also gives users the full scope of data to show them how we followed the data as it shrunk.
I used an annotation text label in order to support my messages. This would allow me to point out specific parts of the data that I was interested in talking about and why we see some of the extreme highs and lows that we do. The annotations also fade in and out to the canvas so that users know which annotation pertains to which scene. I used annotations as a way to help guide the user along with my own thoughts as I went through the graph.

There are two parameters being used in the narrative visualization. The first parameter that is the main focus of my narrative visualization is the engine cylinder count. The states of engine cylinder counts are 0, 0 - 6 (inclusive), and 0 - 12 (inclusive). These are the main defining factors of each scene as the three scenes correspond to how much of the data that the user can see at that point based on engine cylinder count. I do this by modifying which of the horizontal axis (engine cylinder count) values are being plotted to ensure the user has to follow along with the data as more is shown to them. The second parameter that is more detail-oriented is the ability for users to focus on specific data points during each scene depending on the car manufacturer that they highlight in the legend. This is essentially where a user would drill-down to uncover more about how different car manufacturers are spread out throughout the graph. The 58 states of this parameter highlight and outline data points indicated by the user’s mouse hovering over a car manufacturer in the legend, which has 58 manufacturers when all the data is visible to the user. This allows the user to see all data points in a clearer sense to know what cylinder counts they might fall under.

The triggers that connect the user’s actions to different states are buttons. In order to get to the first scene, the user presses a button on the homepage to “Start Slideshow.” From here, they press “Next” and “Previous” buttons to see the different scenes of the visualization. I utilized paragraph sections in order to tell the user that they can hover over both data points for more information as well as legend items for more general information on where car manufacturers can be found. The button that is being hovered over is also highlighted to help indicate to the user that they can click it so that they can move on to the next scene.
